In the beginning, everything is mingled
and joined, all the halves hooked up,
nothing reft or twain, no missing buttons,
no lone baby shoes lying by the off-ramps.
In the beginning everything’s combined
smaller than an atom and that’s the first
happiness which makes all the later happinesses
like threads snagged from a tapestry.
So, fine: everything’s all smashed together
but then along comes coyote and pisses on it
then the ticking starts and the dark arabesques,
the scarlet wheels and none of us can get
far enough away from each other
and none of us can get close enough
so these two desires lie on top of each other
and make more desires but some come out
mangled, missing wings, with angry mouths.
They’re the despairs. So all these desires
and despairs are zipping around looking for
parking spaces, crashing into each other
so it’s like a big party with ambulances
where some signifiers are weeping in the bushes,
some are eating the cake’s giant sugar rose
and one drinks too much ambrosia and vomits
Jimi Hendrix who helps make pain beautiful
and later more and more gold hammers
are called in to make pain really beautiful.
Which gets Zeus’s attention so he throws down
some lightning bolts which is pretty much
his response to everything, vaporizing some
cheerleaders but mostly just blasting holes
in the ground which people use as basements
for buildings where they go and invent ways
to kill dandelions that also kill ants and
the warblers who eat the ants then the warblers
fall into the river and the river loses consciousness
and has to be put on life support. Then the nurse,
who is trying to raise two boys and actualize
herself, one night opens a window in the river’s
semi-private room and there’s the Void.
Uh-oh. She feels pretty dumb opening
a window on the Void but now she can’t
get it closed and it’s making a high
lisping she can’t get out of her head so
she tells her group and they try to sympathize
but each is obviously relieved not to be
that fucked up. So she gets used to it,
starts to hum along a little and the place
is looking tidier and she feels almost relaxed.
Those appointments - what were they?
But all this time the universe is flitting
away, cotton swab by cotton swab,
salamander by salamander, Woolworths,
old movie stars, whole blocks’ of the town
she was born in and the window keeps
getting wider until it’s the whole wall,
the ward, East and then everyone
who’s left can feel things missing
but not what, just a sense of empty
velvet-lined indentations, sighs in halls,
tissue paper, loose chains clanking in streets
that lunge into fog and then there’s a lurch
and the word lurch floats off the last page
leaving behind a single blue line then
the line becomes a dot and the dot becomes
a hole and no one knows if that’s the first
happiness come back or not but you won’t have to
lie, your hands won’t swell up, you won’t
have to pee into a plastic cup, blood
won’t fill your mouth as strangers
ask your name. You won’t have to carry
anything. It will be like sleeping and
you won’t have to worry if you are really loved.
